In this video, you'll learn
how you can construct
your vectors based off
a co-occurrence matrix.
Specifically, depending on
the task you are
trying to solve,
you can have several
possible designs.
You will also see
how you can encode
a word or in documents
as a vector.
Let me show you how
you can do this.
To get a vector space model
using a word-by-word design,
you will make a co-occurrence
matrix and extract
vector or presentations for
the words in your corpus.
You'll be able to get a
vector space model using
a word by document design
using a similar approach.
Finally, I'll show you
how in a vector space
you can find relationships
between words and vectors,
also known as their similarity.
The co-occurrence of
two different words
is the number of times
that they appear in
your corpus together
within a certain word
distance k. For instance,
suppose that your corpus has
the following two sentences.
The role of the co-occurrence
matrix corresponding to
the word data with a
k value equal to 2,
would be populated with
the following values.
For the column corresponding
to the word simple,
you'd get a value equal to 2,
because data and simple
co-occur in the first
sentence within
a distance of one word and in
the second sentence within
a distance of two words,
the row of the
co-occurrence matrix
corresponding to the word data
would look like this
if you consider
the co-occurrence with
the words simple,
raw, like and I.
In this case, the vector
representation of
the word data would be
equal to 2, 1, 1, 0.
With a word by word design,
you can get a representation
with n entries,
with n between one
and the size of your
entire vocabulary.
For a word by document design,
the process is quite similar.
In this case, you will count
the times that words from
your vocabulary appear in
documents that belong
to specific categories.
For instance, you could
have a corpus consisting of
documents between different
topics like entertainment,
economy, and machine learning.
Here, you'd have to
count the number of
times that your words
appear on the documents that
belong to each of the
three categories.
In this example, suppose
that the word data,
appears 500 times in
documents from your corpus
related to entertainment,
6,620 times in
economy documents,
and 9,320 in documents
related to machine learning.
The word film appears in
each document's category,
7,000, 4,000,
and 1,000 times respectively.
Can you get a sense of where
this is going already?
Once you've constructed
the representations
for multiple sets of
documents or words,
you'll guess your vector space.
Let's take the matrix
from the last example.
Here you could take a
representation for the words,
data and film from the
rows of the table.
However, I'll take the
representation for
every category of documents
by looking at the columns.
The vector space will
have two-dimensions.
The number of times
that the words,
data and film appear on
the type of documents.
For the entertainment corpus,
you'd have the following
vector representations
This one for the
economy category,
and that's for the
machine learning
category.Note that in this
space it is easy to see
that the economy and machine
learning documents are
much more similar than they
are to the
entertainment category.
Coming up soon, you'll make
comparisons between vector
representations using
the cosine similarity and
the Euclidean
distance in order to
get the angle and
distance between them.
So far you've seen how to get
vector spaces by two
different designs;
word by word and
word by document;
by either counting the
co-occurrence of words
or the co-occurrence of words
in the documents corpora.
I've also showed you
that in vector spaces,
you can determine
relationships between
types of documents
like similarity.
Now you're becoming
more and more
familiar with these
vector spaces.
You've seen several
possible designs that
you can use to solve
a specific task.
You've also seen
how you can encode
words or tweets as vectors.
In the next video,
you'll learn about
a new similarity
metric that will allow you to
compare these two vectors.
The similarity metric is known
as the Euclidean distance.